# Flower_Species_Identification
Using Convolutional Neural Networks and Transfer Learning
<html><body>
<h3>ABSTRACT :</h3>
  <br>
Automatic identification and recognition of medicinal plant species in environments such as forests, mountains and dense regions is necessary to know about their existence. In recent years, plant species recognition is carried out based on the shape, geometry and texture of various plant parts such as leaves, stem, flowers etc. Flower based plant species identification systems are widely used. While modern search engines provide methods to visually search for a query image that contains a flower, it lacks in robustness because of the intra-class variation among millions of flower species around the world. Hence in this proposed research work, a Deep learning approach using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) is used to recognize flower species with high accuracy. Images of the plant species are acquired using the built-in camera module of a mobile phone. Feature extraction of flower images is performed using a Transfer Learning approach (i.e. extraction of complex features from a pre-trained network). A machine learning classifier such as Logistic Regression or Random Forest is used on top of it to yield a higher accuracy rate. This approach helps in minimizing the hardware requirement needed to perform the computationally intensive task of training a CNN. It is observed that, CNN combined with Transfer Learning approach as feature extractor outperforms all the handcrafted feature extraction methods such as Local Binary Pattern (LBP) by using VGG19 pre-trained model Architecture we are obtaining 85+% accuracy for the project.

  <h3>CONCLUSION :</h3>
The proposed work is a faster way to train a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with a smaller dataset and limited computational resource such as CPU. As there are millions of flower species around the world, this system could easily be adapted by training more number of flower species images to recognize different species around the world. Thus,the future work would be to construct a larger database with not only flower images, but also with leaves, fruits, bark etc.,collected from different sources around different parts of the world. This system would also be useful to identify plants for medicinal purposes such as in case of first aid. The user can quickly take an image of the plant species and get information about it to decide whether or not it can be used for first aid. The crucial part in building such a system is the training dataset which needs to be prepared either by manually taking pictures of the plants around the city or by using public datasets.
<br>
  
<q><h5>Note : This Repository is my Final Year Project based on Deep Learning which includes 4 actual team members(including me) and my Friend(Vijay Babu) as participants in sharing our work towards project completion.</h5></q> 
  </body> </html>
